
## What is an observable?

You’ll see “observable”, “observable sequence” and “sequence” used interchangeably in Rx.

- One of the power — in fact the most important one — is that it is `asynchronous`
- Observables produce events over period of time, which is reffered as emitting.

## Lifecycle of an observable

- An observalbe emits next events that contains elements.

- It can continue to do this until a terminating event is emitted, i.e., an error or completed event.

- `Once an observable is terminated, it can no longer emit events.`

```swift
/// Represents a sequence event.
///
/// Sequence grammar:
/// **next\* (error | completed)**

public enum Event<Element> {
    /// Next element is produced.
    case next(Element)

    /// Sequence terminated with an error.
    case error(Swift.Error)

    /// Sequence completed successfully.
    case completed
}
```

```swift
.subscribe(
  onNext: { print($0) },
  onError: { print($0) },
  onCompleted: { print("Completed") },
  onDisposed: { print("Disposed") }
)
.disposed(by: disposeBag)

```

### Type of Observables

1. just 

> ex: Observable<Int>.just(1) type of this Observable<Int>

2. of 

> ex: Observable<Int>.of(1,2,3) type of this Observable<Int>

> ex: Observable<Int>.of([1,2,3]) type of this Observable<[Int]>


3. from 

> ex: Observable<Int>.from([1,2,3]) type of this Observable<Int>




# NOTEs

## Sharing subscriptions

The problem is that each time you call subscribe(...), this creates a new Observable for that subscription — and each copy is not guaranteed to be the same as the previous. And even when the Observable does produce the same sequence of elements,   
it’s overkill to produce those same duplicate elements for each subscription. There’s no point in doing that.


share (and its specializations via parameters) create a subscription only when the number of subscribers goes from 0 to 1 (i.e., when there isn't a shared subscription already). When a second, third and so on subscribers start observing the sequence, share uses the already created subscription to share with them. If all subscriptions to the shared sequence get disposed (e.g. there are no more subscribers), share will dispose the shared sequence as well. If another subscriber starts observing, share will create a new subscription for it just like described above.